---
layout: page
title: glaciers and ice sheets
description: sea-level rise predictions from glaciers and ice sheets       
img: assets/img/slr_image.jpg
importance: 2
category: work
---

Glacier volume loss projections for climate scenarios that exceed 2 degrees global average warming relative to the pre-industrial period. Projections were generated by developing a glacier scheme for the JULES land surface model and forcing this with an ensemble of downscaled CMIP5 models.     



<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/helix_vol_loss.jpeg title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-4 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/jules_slr.png title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Left: Emsemble mean glacier volume loss for High Mountain Asia and high-end temperaure and precipitation changes by the end of the cenury. Right: Multi-model regional sea-level rise projections. Figure from Shannon et al., 2019    
</div>

<br />
<br />
Sea-level rise projections from the Greenland ice sheet which includes meltwater-enhanced lubrication.  

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/pnas2.png title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/pnas3.png title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/pnas4.png title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Left: Ice velocity observations used to derived a basal sliding scheme. Middle: The effect of meltwater-enhanced lubrication on sea-level rise. Right: Pattern of additional thickness change generated by enhanced lubrication by the CISM 2.0 model. Figures from Shannon et al., 2013.
</div>

<br />
<br />
I contributed JULES glacier volume loss experiments to the [Glacier Model Inter-Comparison Project]( https://www.climate-cryosphere.org/mips/glaciermip) (GlacierMIP2). This was a coordinated intercomparison of global-scale glacier mass change models to foster model improvements and reduce uncertainties in global glacier projections. 

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/glaciermip_paper.png title: "example image" class: "img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    
</div>
<div class="caption">
     The relative contribution of each source of uncertainty to the total uncertainty of projected specific mass balance rate.  Figure from Marzeion et al., 2020
</div>






